README.md, before:

*It all started Feb 15 2016 from this official Docker 
[post on twitter](https://twitter.com/docker/status/699276372204773376)*

# frntn/docker-datacenter-helper

This repo will help you start an *Up & Running* **Docker Datacenter** solution made 
of the two following (commercial) products :

  * `DTR` : *Docker Trusted Registry* offering on-prem image management and storage
  * `UCP` : *Docker Universal Control Plane* offering on-prem management solution for Docker apps

Both requires a **C**ommercial **S**upport (CS) subscription.

You can get a free 30-days trial here : https://hub.docker.com/enterprise/trial

## Usage

*Note: if you have multiple network interfaces the `vagrant up` will prompt for
the good one. To get an unattended behavior you can specify it in 
`Vagrantfile`->`config.vm.network`*

### A. Start your Registery (DTR)

#### A1. spin up the `registry` host. 

```bash
vagrant up registry 
# takes approx 20min on fresh install with a decent connection (1Mo/s)
```

#### A2. configure DTR service

Get registry host IP address
```bash
./getip.sh registry
# results will be like 'Y.Y.Y.Y'
```

From your host browser go to `https://Y.Y.Y.Y` (the certificate is not trusted
so you have to accept the *insecure* connection. That's the expected behavior).

Now go to `Settings`->`general` to update the domain name to
`registry.docker.local` (Don't forget to hit `save and restart` at the bottom 
of the page)

![registry-editdomain](img/registry-editdomain.png?raw=true)

Then go to `Settings`->`License` and upload your license.

![registry-addlicense](img/registry-addlicense.png?raw=true)

You will also **need** to setup a minimal authentication in `Settings`->`Auth`

![registry-adduser](img/registry-adduser.png?raw=true)

And finally create :
1. An `organisation` and
2. A `repository` inside that organisation

#### A3. demo helper

Start the `dtr_helper.sh` script to see in action a demo of a customized jenkins (build, push, run)
```bash
vagrant ssh registry -c /vagrant/dtr_helper.sh
# takes approx 10min
```

This will :
1. build a custom jenkins from official image
2. push the custom image on the DTR
3. run a container pulled from that remote image stored on the DTR

You're done. You can safely open your browser to http://Y.Y.Y.Y:8080 :)

### B. Start your Controller (UCP)

#### B1. spin up the `controller` host. 

```bash
vagrant up controller 
# takes approx 10min on fresh install with a decent connection (1Mo/s)
```

#### B2. configure UCP service

Get controller/UCP dashboard IP address
```bash
./getip.sh controller
# results will be like 'X.X.X.X'
```

From your host browser go to `https://X.X.X.X` (the certificate is not trusted so 
you have to accept the *insecure* connection. That's the expected behavior).

Now connect using defaults `admin`/`orca` and in the settings page upload your license.

![controller-addlicense](img/controller-addlicense.png?raw=true)

It is also recommended that you change your password (upper-right corner : 
`admin`->`profile`)

![controller-editprofile](img/controller-editprofile.png?raw=true)

#### B3. spin up 2 additional nodes and join the controller

```bash
# if you have NOT change the controller password
./ucp_helper.sh

# if you have change the controller password
UCP_ADMIN_PASSWORD=mynewpass ./ucp_helper.sh 
``` 

### Use your Docker Datacenter

The lab for UCP [available on github](https://github.com/docker/ucp_lab) gives
some example on how to deploy your first applications

## Why this helper

It can be difficult to have a valid setup while following the documentation 
which is still in very early stage and contains inconsistency or 
incompatibility between UCP and DTR. 

One example is the UCP documentation explains how to install CS engine 1.9 
and then pulls UCP latest which turns out to be 0.8 and only valid for CS 
engine 1.10.

*(Note: I'd be happy to help and contribute on that, but this is the 
commercial product and it's not available on github)*

## Miscellaneous

  * Docker Trusted Registry [official product page](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-trusted-registry) :
  * Docker Universal Control Plane [official product page](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-universal-control-plane) :

![official-logo](img/docker-datacenter.jpg?raw=true)

Commit message:

false negative warning about docker engine version

README.md, after:

*It all started Feb 15 2016 from this official Docker 
[post on twitter](https://twitter.com/docker/status/699276372204773376)*

# frntn/docker-datacenter-helper

This repo will help you start an *Up & Running* **Docker Datacenter** solution made 
of the two following (commercial) products :

  * `DTR` : *Docker Trusted Registry* offering on-prem image management and storage
  * `UCP` : *Docker Universal Control Plane* offering on-prem management solution for Docker apps

Both requires a **C**ommercial **S**upport (CS) subscription.

You can get a free 30-days trial here : https://hub.docker.com/enterprise/trial

## Usage

*Note: if you have multiple network interfaces the `vagrant up` will prompt for
the good one. To get an unattended behavior you can specify it in 
`Vagrantfile`->`config.vm.network`*

### A. Start your Registery (DTR)

#### A1. spin up the `registry` host. 

```bash
vagrant up registry 
# takes approx 20min on fresh install with a decent connection (1Mo/s)
```

#### A2. configure DTR service

Get registry host IP address
```bash
./getip.sh registry
# results will be like 'Y.Y.Y.Y'
```

From your host browser go to `https://Y.Y.Y.Y` (the certificate is not trusted
so you have to accept the *insecure* connection. That's the expected behavior).

Now go to `Settings`->`general` to update the domain name to
`registry.docker.local` (Don't forget to hit `save and restart` at the bottom 
of the page)

![registry-editdomain](img/registry-editdomain.png?raw=true)

Then go to `Settings`->`License` and upload your license.

![registry-addlicense](img/registry-addlicense.png?raw=true)

You will also **need** to setup a minimal authentication in `Settings`->`Auth`

![registry-adduser](img/registry-adduser.png?raw=true)

And finally create :
1. An `organisation` and
2. A `repository` inside that organisation

Now you might still have red box warning about docker engine incompatibility.
That's not a problem: Just a version checking bug on `1.4.2` which is the latest
at the time of writing.

#### A3. demo helper

Start the `dtr_helper.sh` script to see in action a demo of a customized jenkins
(build, push, run)
```bash
vagrant ssh registry -c /vagrant/dtr_helper.sh
# takes approx 10min
```

This will :
1. build a custom jenkins from official image
2. push the custom image on the DTR
3. run a container pulled from that remote image stored on the DTR

You're done. You can safely open your browser to http://Y.Y.Y.Y:8080 :)

### B. Start your Controller (UCP)

#### B1. spin up the `controller` host. 

```bash
vagrant up controller 
# takes approx 10min on fresh install with a decent connection (1Mo/s)
```

#### B2. configure UCP service

Get controller/UCP dashboard IP address
```bash
./getip.sh controller
# results will be like 'X.X.X.X'
```

From your host browser go to `https://X.X.X.X` (the certificate is not trusted so 
you have to accept the *insecure* connection. That's the expected behavior).

Now connect using defaults `admin`/`orca` and in the settings page upload your license.

![controller-addlicense](img/controller-addlicense.png?raw=true)

It is also recommended that you change your password (upper-right corner : 
`admin`->`profile`)

![controller-editprofile](img/controller-editprofile.png?raw=true)

#### B3. spin up 2 additional nodes and join the controller

```bash
# if you have NOT change the controller password
./ucp_helper.sh

# if you have change the controller password
UCP_ADMIN_PASSWORD=mynewpass ./ucp_helper.sh 
``` 

### Use your Docker Datacenter

The lab for UCP [available on github](https://github.com/docker/ucp_lab) gives
some example on how to deploy your first applications

## Why this helper

It can be difficult to have a valid setup while following the documentation 
which is still in very early stage and contains inconsistency or 
incompatibility between UCP and DTR. 

One example is the UCP documentation explains how to install CS engine 1.9 
and then pulls UCP latest which turns out to be 0.8 and only valid for CS 
engine 1.10.

*(Note: I'd be happy to help and contribute on that, but this is the 
commercial product and it's not available on github)*

## Miscellaneous

  * Docker Trusted Registry [official product page](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-trusted-registry) :
  * Docker Universal Control Plane [official product page](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-universal-control-plane) :

![official-logo](img/docker-datacenter.jpg?raw=true)
